# Bible Project
The project uses the actual King James Bible as a raw resource and involves structuring, separating, analyzing, and filtering words in the bible which was obtained by downloading the file named “kjb” and saving it in “.txt” form. For this project, python was used to clean, parse, and sort the data obtained from the file “kjb”. 
Since the bible consisted of two large testaments, and each testament consisted of several books, which further was split into several chapters, the first step was to separate it into 66 books. It was done using the code written in an IDLE file named bible. The books were separated by splitting the file with the keyword, “\nNext:”. Form those books, their respective chapters were separated and files of the format, “bookIntegerChapter_integer” were created and stored in a folder called “Chapter lists”. 
After creating different chapters, a list of important words were made with the condition that the word had to occur in more than one chapter and did not occur on more than 3 occasions as one of a chapter 5’s most frequent words. The file was called “important_words”. Further, the list of important words were updated by deleting the empty sets in the list of words and removing the unwanted characters like numbers, punctuation marks, and non-alphabetic characters. 
Finally, the chapters which shared the highest number of common important words were found out by creating an adjacency matrix with the condition that they had to lie in two different testaments. The highest number inside the matrix and the corresponding chapters to that number were found out by basic numerical analysis in python. 
Outcome: Setting aside prepositions, pronouns, and articles, the word “Lord” occurred the highest number of times in the chapters.
